Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab. This is a free,
complete course for the CCNA. If you like these
videos, please subscribe to follow along with the
series. Also, please like and leave a comment,
and share the video to help spread this
free series of videos. Thanks for your help.
In this video we will cover DHCP,
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol.
Just like DNS, DHCP is a protocol that you’re
certainly using every day, even if you’re not
aware of it. DHCP allows DHCP clients, usually end
devices like PCs, phones, etc, to automatically
learn which IP address to use from a DHCP server,
instead of us having to manually configure it.
However DHCP allows devices to learn much more
than just their IP address, as you’ll see in this
video. DHCP is part of exam topics 4.3, explain
the role of DHCP and DNS within the network,
and 4.6, configure and verify DHCP client and
relay. Actually DHCP is also mentioned in section
5.0, security fundamentals, however we’ll leave
security for a separate section of the course.
Here’s what we’ll cover in this video. First
I’ll outline the basic purpose of DHCP,
and why we use it. Then I’ll introduce the
basic functions of DHCP, specifically the
four-message exchange that clients use
to get an IP address from a DHCP server.
Then I’ll show you how to configure DHCP in
Cisco IOS. A Cisco router can be a DHCP server,
a DHCP client, or something called a ‘DHCP
relay agent’. I’ll show you how to configure
all of those. Make sure to watch until
the end of the video for a bonus practice
question from Boson Software’s ExSim for
CCNA, the best practice exams for the CCNA.
Here’s a brief overview of DHCP. DHCP is used to
allow hosts to automatically and dynamically learn
various aspects of their network
configuration such as IP address,
subnet mask, default gateway, DNS server,
etc, without manual and static configuration.
It is an essential part of modern networks, I’m
certain you’re using it everyday. For example,
when you connect a phone to WiFi, do you ask the
network admin, whoever’s running the network,
which IP address, subnet mask, default gateway,
etc, the phone or laptop should use? Probably not,
we all expect that once we connect to WiFi
we’ll automatically have access to the network
and the Internet. It’s probably the same in your
home network. If you connect your PC to your
home router, you probably don’t need to manually
configure your PC’s IP address, default gateway,
etc. Of course, you can do that if you want, and
some of you probably do. In a small network manual
configuration isn’t such a difficult task. However
in large networks DHCP’s role is very important.
Note that DHCP is typically used for ‘client’
devices such as workstations, PCs, phones, etc.
Devices such as routers, servers,
etc, are usually manually configured.
This is because they need to have a fixed
IP address to perform their function.
If the default gateway of the network kept
changing it would obviously not be ideal.
In small networks (such as home networks) the
router typically acts as the DHCP server for
hosts in the LAN. If you have a router in your
home, it’s probably acting as the DHCP server
for all of your devices. However in larger
networks, such as a large enterprise network,
the DHCP server is usually
a Windows or Linux server.
Now I’ll give a brief demonstration
of DHCP’s function using my own PC,
which is running Windows 10. If your PC is
running Windows, I recommend following along.
This is the ‘network and sharing center’, which
can be accessed from the control panel. I’m going
to select my PC’s Ethernet0 connection, which is
connected to my home router via an Ethernet cable.
This is what you’ll see after opening it. Here
I select the properties of my PC’s Ethernet
connection, Ethernet0. Then the properties are
displayed. I select the IPv4 properties here.
This window opens up. Here I can confirm that
my PC is using DHCP. Here it says ‘obtain an
IP address automatically’. And down here it
says ‘obtain DNS server address automatically’.
‘Automatically’ means that my PC will use DHCP
to learn which IP address, subnet mask,
default gateway, and DNS server it should use.
Let’s take a look at what was automatically
configured. I used the IPCONFIG /ALL command,
which you already know. First off, notice
that it tells us that DHCP is enabled.
If I had manually configured my PC’s
IP address in the previous menu,
‘No’ would display here. And here is
the IPv4 address my PC was assigned,
192.168.0.167 with a /24 subnet mask. Notice that
it says ‘preferred’ here. What does that mean?
It means that this PC was previously
assigned this IP address by the DHCP server.
Then, when it asked the server for an IP address
again, it asked to receive the same address again.
If this address was no longer available, my PC
would have been assigned a different address.
However, the address was available, so my PC got
its preferred IP address. Here’s an important part
of DHCP, the lease time. IPCONFIG /ALL displays
what time the lease was obtained, and what time
it will expire. What exactly does this mean?
DHCP servers ‘lease’ IP addresses to clients.
These leases are usually not permanent, and the
client must give up the IP address at the end of
the lease. A client can also release the address
before the lease is up, if it no longer needs it.
Now, I said ‘usually’ not permanent, because
it is possible to configure the DHCP server
to permanently assign IP addresses. However,
it’s almost always best to set a lease time.
For example, think about a cafe that provides
WiFi network access to its customers.
If the IP address leases were permanent,
every time a new customer comes into the cafe
and connects to the WiFi, the customer’s devices
would be permanently assigned IP addresses,
unless the client device releases it. Or how about
an airport that provides WiFi? I think you can see
why it’s best to limit the lease time, to preserve
the available IP addresses. If the customer stays
longer than the lease time, their device will
simply automatically request a new IP address,
but if they stop using the network the IP
addresses will be free for someone else to use.
Okay, here at the bottom we can see some
other info my PC learned from the DHCP server.
The default gateway, DHCP server,
and DNS server are all 192.168.0.1,
which is my home router. This
is common in home networks,
the home router provides all of these
services to devices on the local network.
I want to demonstrate the process that a DHCP
client goes through to get an IP address from
a DHCP server, but first I need to make my PC
release its IP address, so it can ask the server
again. The command in the Windows command prompt
to release the DHCP-learned IP address is IPCONFIG
/RELEASE. Now no information is displayed for the
Ethernet0 interface. So, let me demonstrate what
just happened. My PC sent a DHCP Release message
to the DHCP server, my router, telling it that the
IP address isn’t needed anymore. So, 192.168.0.167
is now free to assign to another client.
I used Wireshark to capture
that DHCP release message.
For the CCNA you should focus on learning the four
message process used to lease an IP address from
a DHCP server, which I will show you next. But
let’s look at the DHCP release message anyway.
Of course, the message is an Ethernet frame so
here’s the Ethernet header. An IPv4 header is
inside, from source IP address 192.168.0.167, the
PC, to destination IP 192.168.0.1, the router.
Inside is a UDP header, and notice the
ports. Source port 68, destination port 67.
DHCP servers use UDP port 67 and DHCP clients use
UDP port 68. So, the source port is 68 because
it’s the DHCP client, and the destination
port is 67 because it’s the DHCP server.
This is different than DNS, for example, in
which only the port of the server is decided
and the client uses a random ephemeral port.
Finally, inside of the UDP segment we have the
DHCP release message. The client IP is indicated
here. And notice these ‘options’ down here.
DHCP has various options used for different
purposes. For example option 53, at the top,
indicates what kind of DHCP message it is. And
before moving on, let me point out my favorite
part of DHCP messages, the magic cookie. Do a
Google search if you want to learn about that one.
Now that I’ve released the IP address of
my PC, let’s take a look at how my PC can
get an IP address from the DHCP server. From the
Windows command prompt I used the command IPCONFIG
/RENEW. My PC contacts the DHCP server, and
now my PC has the same configuration as before.
This process involves four
messages, let me introduce them now.
The first message is the DHCP Discover message.
It is a broadcast message from the client.
Basically, it’s asking if there are any DHCP
servers in the local network, telling them it
needs an IP address. Let’s use Wireshark to take
a look at the DHCP Discover message my PC sent.
Here it is. Here’s the Ethernet header. Notice
the destination broadcast MAC address of all Fs.
My PC doesn’t know the IP address or MAC address
of the DHCP server. In fact it doesn’t even know
if there is a DHCP server on the network, so
it has no choice but to broadcast the message.
Here’s the IPv4 header. Notice
the source IP address of 0.0.0.0.
Basically, this means my PC doesn’t have an IP
address yet. The destination is 255.255.255.255,
so it’s a broadcast message. Once again,
since this is a message from the DHCP
client to the server, the source port is UDP
68 and the destination is UDP 67. And here’s
the actual DHCP message. You don’t need to know
the contents of any of these messages in detail,
just know their basic purpose. But here are a few
of the fields. First off, the ‘Bootp flags’ field.
Bootp is actually the predecessor of DHCP, but
you don’t need to learn Bootp for the CCNA.
I just want to point out the value of ‘unicast’
here, represented by 0000. This may seem odd, the
message is broadcast but this field says unicast.
I’ll explain it when we look at the next message.
Then we can see here that the client IP
address is 0.0.0.0, since my PC doesn’t have
an IP address yet. The client MAC is also
displayed here. And here are the options,
notice they are different than the ones used in
the DHCP Release message we looked at before.
Let me just point out this option, Requested
IP Address. Because my PC previously had the IP
address 192.168.0.167, it requested that address
again. If the address is available, the server
might grant it that same IP address again. But if
it’s not, my PC would get a different IP address.
If this is the first time my PC is using DHCP
it won’t request an IP address like this, it
will simply leave it up to the server to decide.
The next message is the DHCP Offer message, it is
sent from the DHCP server to the client, offering
an address for the client to use, as well as other
information like default gateway, DNS server, etc.
So let’s check out the DHCP
Offer my router sent to my PC.
First off, notice the Offer is sent as a
unicast frame to the client’s MAC address,
since the server learned the client’s
MAC address from the Discover message.
It’s also unicast at Layer 3, the destination
is the IP address being offered to the client.
This time the source and destination port
number are reversed, since it’s a message
from the server to the client. The source
is UDP 67 and the destination is UDP 68.
And here’s the Offer message. Let’s look at
this field again, ‘Bootp flags’. Once again,
it says unicast. When my PC sent the DHCP Discover
message this field was also set to 0000, unicast.
This means that the server will send its messages
using unicast, as I just showed you above.
However, that’s not always the case. The DHCP
Offer message can be sent to the client using
either broadcast or unicast. It depends on the
client. In this case my PC told the router to send
the Offer using unicast, so it did. If my PC told
the router to send the Offer using broadcast, the
destination MAC of this message would be all F’s
and the destination IP would be 255.255.255.255.
At this point in the DHCP process, the
client’s IP address isn’t actually configured.
Some clients won’t accept unicast messages before
their IP address is actually configured, so that’s
why sometimes broadcast must be used instead of
unicast. And finally here are the options. For
example option 51 indicates the lease time, option
6 is ‘domain name server’ that’s the DNS server,
and option 3 is ‘router’, which tells the client
the default gateway. By the way, you don’t have
to memorize these option numbers, definitely not
at the CCNA level, I’m just pointing them out.
Okay, the next message is the DHCP Request
message. It is sent from the DHCP client
to the server, telling the server that it
wants to use the IP address it was offered.
This is important, there may be multiple
DHCP servers on the local network,
and all of them will reply to the
client’s Discover message with an Offer.
So, the client has to tell which
server it is accepting the offer from
and request to use that IP address. Typically, the
client will accept the first Offer it receives.
Let’s look at that Request message in Wireshark.
The destination MAC is all Fs, so this
is once again a broadcast message.
If there are multiple DHCP servers on the
network, all of them will receive this
message. One of the later fields will indicate
which server the PC accepted the offer from.
The source IP is still 0.0.0.0, since the offered
IP address hasn’t actually been configured yet.
The destination is broadcast, 255.255.255.255.
Since it’s a message from the client to the
server, the source port is UDP 68 and the
destination is UDP 67. And here’s the request
message. Here’s the flags field again, telling
the server to send its messages using unicast,
even though the client itself uses broadcast. And
here are the options for this Request message.
Notice that the server’s IP address is
indicated using option 54. If there are
multiple DHCP servers on the local network, this
is how the client says which server it selected.
Now the final message in the process, the DHCP
Ack, acknowledgement. This is sent from the server
to the client, confirming that the client may
use the requested IP address. Once this message
is received the client finally configures
the IP address on its network interface.
Here’s that Ack message in Wireshark.
Notice that these messages from the server to the
client are once again sent to unicast addresses,
not broadcast. Let me point out once
again that the server uses UDP port 67,
so that’s the source port, and the client uses
UDP port 68, so that’s the destination port.
And here’s the Ack message. The Bootp flags field
once again indicates unicast, because the client
requested unicast messages. Just like the DHCP
Offer message, the DHCP Ack message can be either
broadcast or unicast, depending on what the client
requests. And these are the options for this Ack
message. There are many different DHCP options, if
you want to check out a list, the DHCP Wikipedia
page lists a bunch of them, and a quick Google
search will give you many explanations of
their various functions. But that’s just
extra, not necessary for the CCNA exam.
Here’s a quick summary of that process. A common
way to remember the messages is D-O-R-A, DORA,
for Discover, Offer, Request, and Ack. Make
sure you know which messages are sent from
client to server, server to client, and also which
messages must be sent broadcast and which can be
sent either broadcast or unicast. Also, here’s
the Release message I showed first, it’s sent
unicast from the client to the server. There are
actually many more DHCP message types than these,
but if you know these message
types you’ll be ready for the CCNA.
Next let me introduce the concept of DHCP Relay.
Some network engineers might choose to
configure each router to act as the DHCP server
for its connected LANs. However, large enterprises
often choose to use a centralized DHCP server,
which will assign IP addresses to DHCP clients
in all subnets throughout the enterprise network.
If the server is centralized, it won’t receive
the DHCP clients’ broadcast DHCP messages.
Remember, broadcast messages don’t leave the local
subnet, routers don’t forward them. However to
fix this you can configure a router to act as a
‘DHCP relay agent’. If you do that, the router
will forward the clients’ broadcast DHCP messages
to the remote DHCP server as unicast messages.
Let me use this network to demonstrate. PC1
is a DHCP client, so it will broadcast a DHCP
Discover message to ask DHCP servers on the
local network to assign it an IP address.
However, in this case R1 isn’t a DHCP server.
SRV1 is the central DHCP server for this network,
so R1 will need to forward any
DHCP messages from PC1 to SRV1.
Let me demonstrate that visually. SRV1 is a
DHCP server, and R1 is a DHCP relay agent.
PC1 broadcasts a DHCP Discover message to get an
IP address. R1, a DHCP relay agent, relays the
message to SRV1. Notice that the source address
changes to the address of R1’s G0/1 interface,
and the destination is SRV1’s IP
address. So, it is a unicast message.
Then SRV1 replies with the DHCP Offer, sending
it to the address of R1’s G0/1 interface,
192.168.1.1. R1 then forwards it to
PC1. The source is R1’s IP address,
and the message is either sent unicast to PC1 or
broadcast. Then PC1 broadcasts a request message,
and R1 relays it to SRV1. Finally SRV1 replies
with a DHCP Ack, and R1 forwards that to PC1,
which configures the IP address it was
assigned, for example 192.168.1.100.
So, that’s a quick overview of how DHCP
relay agents work. It’s quite easy to
configure a DHCP relay agent, you just need
one command, and I’ll show you how to do it.
In the next section I’ll show you how to configure
DHCP. First, I’ll show you how to configure a
Cisco router as a DHCP server, and then how to
configure a Cisco router as a DHCP relay agent.
Finally I’ll show you how to configure
a Cisco router as a DHCP client.
So, let me show you how to configure a
Cisco router to function as a DHCP server.
Let’s use these two devices here, R1 and PC1. Here
are the commands. First up, you can use the IP
DCHP EXCLUDED-ADDRESS command to specify a range
of addresses that WON’T be given to DHCP clients.
These are addresses you want to reserve,
perhaps for network devices or servers in
the local subnet. The first address in the command
is the low end of the range, and then the second
is the top of the range. So, this reserves all
addresses from 192.168.1.1 through 192.168.1.10.
This command isn’t necessary, but it’s a good idea
to reserve some addresses which can be statically
assigned to servers, network devices, or whatever.
Then use the command IP DHCP POOL, followed by
the pool name, to create a DHCP pool. What is a
DHCP pool? It’s basically a subnet of addresses
that can be assigned to DHCP clients, as well as
other info such as DNS server and default gateway.
You should create a separate DHCP pool for each
network the router is acting as a DHCP server for.
In this case R1 is only acting as the DHCP server
for 192.168.1.0/24, so I only need to create one
pool. Here’s where you actually configure the
range of addresses to be assigned to clients.
The command is NETWORK, followed by the network
address and then either the network mask or prefix
length. So, you can write /24 or 255.255.255.0,
either works. So, I told R1 to assign addresses
from 192.168.1.0/24 to clients, although it
won’t assign the addresses I reserved above.
Then you can configure the DNS server
that clients in the network should use.
So, in this case R1 would tell PC1 to use Google’s
DNS server at 8.8.8.8 for its DNS queries.
You can also configure the domain name of the
network. In this case R1 will tell PC1 that it
is part of the domain ‘jeremysitlab.com’.
Then there’s the DEFAULT-ROUTER command.
What’s this? It’s the default gateway. So, R1 will
tell clients to use its address, 192.168.1.1, as
their default gateway. You can also configure the
lease time. I specified 0 5 30, which is 0 days,
5 hours, and 30 minutes. You can also enter LEASE
INFINITE, although as I have said before that’s
not recommended. So, when PC1 comes online
and sends its DHCP Discover message, perhaps
it will be assigned .11, the first available
address since .1 through .10 are reserved.
Let’s confirm. Here’s a really useful command
on a Cisco router acting as a DHCP server,
SHOW IP DHCP BINDING. It shows all of the DHCP
clients that are currently assigned IP addresses.
Here’s PC1, with an IP address of 192.168.1.11.
Its MAC address is also displayed, and the
lease expiration date and time, and the binding
type. DHCP bindings can be manually configured,
but we didn’t do that in this
case. So let’s check on PC1.
Here’s the domain name, jeremysitlab.com. Here’s
the IP address and subnet mask it was assigned.
Here we can see when the lease was
obtained and when it will expire.
Notice that the lease period is 5 hours and 30
minutes, as I configured. The lease expiration
times on PC1 and R1 are different, but that’s
just because I didn’t configure the time zone.
And finally we can see the
default gateway, DHCP server,
and DNS server. So, we successfully
configured R1 as a DHCP server.
Now, how about DHCP relay agent configuration?
Here’s that same network as before,
SRV1 is a DHCP server and R1 will be a
DHCP relay agent after we configure it.
To configure it as a relay agent, first enter
interface config mode for the interface connected
to the client devices. PC1 is connected to R1’s
g0/1, so we will configure that interface. Then
all you need is one command, IP HELPER-ADDRESS,
followed by the IP address of the DHCP server.
Of course, make sure R1 actually
has a route to the DHCP server.
If it doesn’t have a route, configure a static
route or use a dynamic routing protocol like OSPF.
After configuring that I checked the interface
with SHOW IP INTERFACE G0/1. Notice that the
‘helper address’ is listed here, 192.168.10.10,
which is SRV1. And that’s it, that’s all you need
to do to configure a router as a DHCP relay agent.
IP HELPER-ADDRESS, then the DHCP server address.
Okay, one last thing you need to be able to
configure for the CCNA. A Cisco router can
be a DHCP client, meaning it can use DHCP to
configure the IP address of its interfaces.
This is rare, as I mentioned earlier usually
network devices will be configured with a
fixed IP address. However here’s how you
can do it. Let’s make R2 a DHCP client
on its G0/1 interface. From interface config
mode for G0/1, use the command IP ADDRESS DHCP.
That’s it, now R2 will broadcast a DHCP Discover
message and get an IP address from SRV1. Indeed
it did, I checked with SHOW IP INTERFACE G0/1.
It states clearly, ‘address determined by DHCP’.
Note that its G0/0 interface is still
manually configured, its not a DHCP client.
Here’s a summary of the commands
we covered in this video.
A couple commands for the Windows command prompt,
then Cisco IOS commands to configure a DHCP
server, a DHCP relay agent, and a DHCP client.
If you don’t remember any of these commands, go
back in the video to review. You can also get
practice with some of these commands in today’s
practice lab, which will be in the next video.
Before moving on to the quiz, let’s
review what we covered in this video.
First, I introduced the purpose of DHCP. It
allows devices to automatically learn various
configuration parameters, such as their IP
address, subnet mask, default gateway, etc.
I introduced the basic functions of DHCP. Make
sure you remember DORA, Discover, Offer, Request,
and Ack. You should also know the basic
purpose and functions of a DHCP relay agent.
Finally I showed you how to
configure DHCP in Cisco IOS.
First, how to configure a Cisco router as a DHCP
server, then a DHCP relay agent, and finally a
DHCP client. Make sure to watch until the end
of the quiz for a bonus question from Boson
Software’s ExSim for CCNA, the best practice exams
for the CCNA. Okay, let’s go to quiz question 1.
What is the correct order of messages when a
DHCP client gets an IP address from a server?
Here are the options. Pause the
video to think about the answer.
The answer is B, Discover, Offer, Request, Ack.
If you’re having trouble remembering the order,
remember D-O-R-A, DORA.
Okay, let’s go to question 2.
Which of the following Windows command prompt
commands will cause a PC to broadcast a DHCP
Discover message? Here are the options.
Pause the video to think about the answer.
The answer is D, IPCONFIG /RENEW. This will
cause the PC to send a DHCP Discover message
to get an IP address from any
DHCP servers it can reach.
C, IPCONFIG /RELEASE will make the
PC send a DHCP Release message,
to release its current IP address. A and B are
not real commands. Okay, let’s go to question 3.
Examine the following DHCP Offer message that
SRV1 sent to R2. What destination IP address
did SRV1 send it to? Here are the options.
Pause the video to select the correct answer.
The answer is D, 255.255.255.255. How can
we know this from this output, even though
I didn’t show the IP header? It’s here, the
broadcast flag in the Bootp flags field is set.
In the previous examples, this field was unicast,
so the server would send unicast messages to the
client. However in this case it is broadcast, so
the server will broadcast messages to the client.
Therefore, the destination IP address is
255.255.255.255. Okay, let’s go to question 4.
Which of the following DHCP messages can be sent
using unicast? (select all that apply) Here are
the options. Note that this includes messages
that can be sent either unicast or broadcast,
as well as messages that are always sent unicast.
Okay, pause the video to think about the answers.
The answers are A, DHCP Ack, C,
DHCP Release, and E, DHCP Offer.
A and E are messages sent from
the DHCP server to the client,
and they can be sent using unicast if the
client indicates it in the ‘bootp flags’ field.
C is sent by a DHCP client to its DHCP server, to
tell the server it no longer needs its IP address.
It is sent unicast. B and D are always broadcast
messages. Okay, let’s go to question 5.
In which of the following situations would you
configure a router as a DHCP relay agent? Here
are the options. Read them carefully, and
select the best answer. Pause the video now.
Okay the answer is A, when the router is
not a DHCP server, there are DHCP clients
in the router’s connected LAN, and there is
no other DHCP server in the connected LAN.
B, C, and D do not require the router to
be a DHCP relay agent. Okay, that’s all
for the quiz. Now let’s take a look at a bonus
question in Boson Software’s ExSim for CCNA.
Okay here's today's Boson ExSim practice question.
You are the administrator for the network
shown above. DHCP services for the network
are provided by the DHCP server on NetworkB.
DHCP services are not running on the routers.
Which of the following commands should you
issue to enable clients on NetworkA to receive
IP addresses from the DHCP server? Select the
best answer. Okay, so these are the options.
IP HELPER-ADDRESS commands, so which router
should you use the command on, and what should
be the IP address you enter in the command? Okay,
pause the video now to think about your answer.
Okay let's check. So, these clients
here in NetworkA are DHCP clients,
or they want to be DHCP clients. So they
need to access the DHCP server here.
So they will broadcast DHCP Discover messages
which RouterA will receive. Now, RouterA is not
a DHCP server, but we have to configure it as a
DHCP relay agent. So, among the answers, C, D,
and F have you issuing the command on RouterA.
So the correct answer is one of these three.
Okay, so what should be the IP address? The
command is IP HELPER-ADDRESS, and then the IP
address of the DHCP server. So that is 10.10.3.5,
therefore the answer should be F. So let's check.
And that is correct. So, you can
read Boson's explanation down here,
including some explanation about the IP
HELPER-ADDRESS command, it's not only for DHCP.
Okay and that's Boson's explanation, and they
have a reference here to some Cisco documentation
about the IP HELPER-ADDRESS command.
Okay so that's Boson ExSim for the CCNA.
These are without a doubt the best practice
exams for the CCNA, and they're the
ones I used to get my certification.
If you want to get Boson ExSim, follow
the link in the video description.
There are supplementary materials for this video.
There is a flashcard deck to use with
the software ‘Anki’. There will also
be a packet tracer practice lab so
you can get some hands-on practice.
That will be in the next video. Sign up for my
mailing list via the link in the description,
and I’ll send you all of the flashcards
and packet tracer lab files for the course.
Before finishing today’s video I want to
thank my JCNP-level channel members. To join,
please click the ‘Join’ button under the video.
Thank you to Brandon, Samil, Aaron, Tech Alameda,
Marcel, Magrathea, Kone, Donald, C Mohd,
Gustavo, Anthony, Biraj, Junhong, Njabulo,
Benjamin, Tshepiso, Justin, Prakaash, Nasir,
Erlison, Apogee, Marko, Daming, Jhilmar, Ed,
Value, John, Funnydart, Velvijaykum, Mark, Yousif,
Boson Software, Devin, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance.
Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly,
but thank you so much for your support.
This is the list of JCNP-level members at the
time of recording by the way, January 24th 2021.
If you signed up recently and your name isn’t
on here don’t worry, you’ll be in future videos.
Thank you for watching. Please
subscribe to the channel,
like the video, leave a comment, and share the
video with anyone else studying for the CCNA.
If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the
description. I'm also a Brave verified publisher
and accept BAT, or Basic Attention Token, tips
via the Brave browser. That's all for now.